SCORE                                                                     SCORE

NAME
	Score - Program to manage and score noontime running
	league results.

SYNOPSIS
	score [-f <results,roster,teams> -i -y <year> -s <scorall>
		 -q  -help -v]

DESCRIPTION
	Score parses a results file (see below FILES) and a
	roster file which describe the current state of the SU
	noontime running league. The program is menu-driven.
	It can produce various reports on the screen, in a file,
	or in hard-copy.

OPTIONS
		-f     Take the next three arguments as the full paths
		       to files which will be used in place of
		       RESULTSFILE,ROSTERFILE, and TEAMSFILE named in
		       .scorerc. (Relative paths may be used if these
		       files are in the working directory.)
		
		-i     Prints a summary of the settings in .scorerc
                       and exits.

		-help  Print a brief help message on the screen.

		-q     Quick. Prints the error log on the screen and
		       writes the individual and team standings to the
		       file named in the Scorall entry of .scorerc. With
		       this option the program has essentially the same
		       behaviour as Ed Stabler's "Newnoon" programs.
		      
		-s     Take the following argument as the full path to
		       a file which will be used in place of the Scorall
		       entry of .scorerc 

		-v     Print the version number.

		-y     Use the next argument as the competition year.

		Options v and help can only be used by themselves. The 
		other options can be given in any order, and q can be
		combined as -qy , -qf, -qs, but not -fq or -yq.

UI
	The User Interface is a text-mode document/view model with 4 ( or 5 )
	windows: The title line, the main menu, the main window, and
	the status bar. A dialog box may be present. The UI has 3
	possible states: main window focus, menu focus, and submenu focus.
	(Dialog box might be considered a 4th, although it only takes
        place from submenu focus.) Striking the ALT-ESC key ( or ESC twice
	in succession ) results in a change of focus. The obvious changes
	are allowed. Whenever cursor movement is enabled both "grey" keys
 	and number-pad keys should work. 

		Main Menu: Is only accessible to the user in menu focus.
		The left and right arrow keys cycle through the menu. 
		The down arrow or enter shift to submenu focus and select
		the highlighted submenu. Invalid keys beep.

		In submenu focus the up and down arrow keys cycle through
		the submenu, and an action is selected by striking the
                enter key. Invalid keys beep.

		Main Window: There is always a current open document which
		is being displayed in the Main Window. The current document
		may be viewed, saved and printed, but not edited. All the
		cursor movement keys except home and end  are enabled. In
		addition, control end moves to the last line of the document,
		control home moves to the first, enter moves the screen down by
                one line, and space displays the next page with one line
		in common at the top. Alt Esc or two Esc's in succession
		change to menu focus and highlight the last chosen menu item.
		All other keystrokes and attempts to move outside the
		document beep.

		Status bar: At the bottom of screen, it displays current 
		information and is updated at least after every keystroke.
		Displayed is current line:col in the current open document,
		path of current open document, current sort criterion ( and
		direction ), and the current message. All error messages
		appear on the status bar as current messages. 

		Dialog Boxes: Only the most primitive editing is enabled:
		the back-space key moves the cursor back one space and 
		deletes the character there. Invalid characters and esc
		abort the dialog. 

FILES
	$HOME/.scorerc, ResultsFile, RosterFile, TeamsFile,
	./errlog, Scorall, /usr/lib/kbd/keytables/score.map

	Certain options may be set by editing the file .scorerc, which
	should be located in the user's home directory. 
	These are overidden by options set on the command line. Both
	.scorerc settings and command-line settings may be overridden
	from the "Options" menu of the user interface.

		CompetitionYear  -- For example 1995 = 94-95 AY.

		Scorall -- File for output of the team and individual
		standings.

		Working Directory -- The program cd's here before doing
		anything substantial. Normally this would be the directory
		containing all the data files. In order for the help menu
		to work properly, all the .txt help files MUST be located
 		in this directory.

		RosterFile -- Contains information on all runners. 
		Use full path if not in the working directory.

		ResultsFile -- File containing all current results. 
		Use full path if not in the working directory.
		TeamsFile -- File containing team information.
		Use full path if not in the working directory.

		OutputFile -- Normally cout, where reports should be
			sent. This can also be set from a menu and, if so,
			the menu choice overrides this setting.

		UseOldAge -- Prior to the 96-97 season the runner's age
                on the last day of competition (May 15) was used as his or her
                age for scoring purposes throughout the competition year. 
                Including this directive makes the program use this old age
                determination method.

		ExclusiveExtremes -- Of the 100m and the 15k, count only the
                one with the higher point value. (This method was used in
                some competition years.)

		PointResolution %d -- Decimal number is taken to be the
                resolution of the point scale. Thus, if the number given is
                .5, then the possible scores in each event are to be 1, 1.5,
                2, 2.5, ... , 9.5, 10.

		Use10MFor15K -- Handles a rule change in 98-99. A runner can 
		turn in times for either 10Mile or 15K event: each is scored
                according to the actual event standard, but only better counts
                towards points in a combined 10M/15K event. It probably only
                makes sense to set this flag if either 10Mile or 15K is an
                excluded event (see below.) If only one event appears in
                scorall, the listed time will always be from the event giving
                the higher number of points (before roundoff) and the higher
                number points is recorded. If the time shown is not for the
                event of the column heading, it is marked with an asterisk.  	
		
		ExcludedEvent -- Name of an event known to the program which
		is not being run this year. (Doesn't count in team totals
                and is not shown in scorall.)

		ExcludedRelay -- Name of a relay event known to the program
		which  is not being run this year.

		PrinterInitString -- Command string necessary to put the
		printer in landscape mode with a sufficiently compressed
		font (16.67 cpi will do.)

		PrinterResetString -- Command string necessary to return the
		printer to its default state.

		The results file contains the following:
			Lines beginning with *  are ignored.
			Lines of the form
				date <datestring> <type>
			 set the date and run type for all subsequent results 
			 until reset by another such line. Type must be one
			 of regular, outside, or informal.
			 This program recognizes date-
			 strings in either mm/dd/yy or mm-dd-yy format.
			Lines of the form
				distance <eventname> 
			 set the event name until reset by another
			 such line. The eventname must be one of those
			 currently recognized by the program: 100m,200m, 400m,
			 800m, 1500m, 1600m, 3k, 5k, 10k, 15k, mar, 800r,1600r,
			 dmr, 3200r.
			Lines of the form
				<name> <time>
					  -OR-
				<name> <name> <name> <name> <time>
			 report a performance in the current event. The names
			 must be exactly as given in the roster file. Times
			 can be reported in hh:mm:sec.s, mm:sec.s, or sec.s
			 format. The 4 name format is for relays.

			The roster file contains lines of the form
			(separated by whitespace):
				<name> <month> <day> <year> <sex> <team>
			 For example,
			  tmcconnell   4 30 54  m tmt
			 The sex must be either m or f :-) and team must be
			 one of the three-letter codes known to the
			 program through the teams file.

			 The teams file contains lines of the form
			 (separated by whitespace):
				<team> <Long Name> <Captain's Name>
			  For example,
				sdd  "The Steddies" "Ed Stabler"
			  The team must be a three-letter identifier which
			  will be used in reports to stand for this team.
			  It must be the same as the one used in the roster.
			  The Long Name and Captain's name must be enclosed
			  in quotes. These fields are limited in size.
			  Specifying a very long name may cause problems.

			  All of these files allow commenting -- any line
			  beginning with * is ignored.
			  
		(Linux Only) The file /usr/lib/kbd/keytables/score.map
			 contains some customized keymappings that this
			 program uses. 

			  customizations:
			  Control Pgdown mapped to F10  = <esc>[6+
        		  PgUP             F11  = <esc>[5+
        		  Home             F12  = <esc>[1+
        		  End              F13  = <esc>[4+
			  ( same for number pad )
			  Alt escape mapped to F15 = <esc><esc>
			  BackSpace mapped to Control_H

		
		errlog contains error messages generated during parsing
			  of the results file. These are displayed when the
			  program loads and can be redisplayed at will.
			  It will be found in the working directory.
	      

BUGS
	-If both the Use10MFor15K and ExclusiveExtremes flags are set in the 
	 same year, the program will probably not do the right thing.        
	-Does not yet support long names for individuals.
	-Blank lines containing spaces or tabs in the input files
	 can cause problems.
	-The window colors are not the same as in the DOS version. This
         seems to be a problem with ncurses. (The NeXT version doesnt
         support colors at all. )
	- Relays are not enabled in the superlatives menu choice.
	- Scorall can only be sorted in increasing/decreasing alphabetic
          by last name order. Other sorts that should be supported are
          by team/lastname, team/totalpoints, totalpoints. 
	- UP probably should be DWN and DWN should be UP in the sort
	  direction description.
	- The user interface hardwires terminal capabilities instead of
	  of reading them from terminfo. Consequently it will only work
          with the "linux" terminal, although vt100 is probably similar
          enough.
	-Excluding events just supresses that column of scorall. Times
	 for events which are excluded are still counted in the point
	 totals. It might be nice to fix this so that you could play
	 "what if".
	-Worst performances in the superlatives submenu are actually worst
	 best performances. Runners are only listed once in these reports.
	 I.e., if a runner has the 3 top times in the 5k ( say, ) then
	 only the best time is reported.
	 ( Changing either of these would be very painful. )


