    Syracuse University Noontime Running League Rules of Competition

Individual Competition.

Records are kept of the best times for each person. Age categories are as 
follows: 11 and under, 12-13, 14-15, 16-17, 18-19, 20-29, 30-34, 35-39,
40-44, 45-49, 50-54, 55-59, 60-64, 65 and over for females,
65 -69, 70-74, and 75-79 and 80 and over for males.

Points are given both for participating (participation points) and for
achieving certain standards (achievement points) in the following events:

        100 meters
        200 meters
        400 meters
        800 meters
        One mile
        3000 meters
        5000 meters
        10000 meters
        15000 meters ( or 10 Miles )
        800 meter relay
        1600 meter relay
        3200 meter relay


Team Competition

Runners will be divided into five teams. Each year, during the Fall
semester, a draft will be conducted to choose the teams. This will be done
in conjunction with a party at one of the local establishments. The team
selections will be binding for one year only. The team accumulating the
greatest number of points at the end of the year shall receive an award.

The draft procedure is as follows: Captains will select 1st through 5th in
reverse order of the number of points they scored the previous year. Number
1 has the first selection; number 5 has the fifth selection. This order of
selection is then repeated until all available runners have been selected.

The "commissioner" will attempt to coerce runners into becoming team 
captains. Captains will change each year, and will have the following
responsibilities:

        - Think of a clever name for your team.
        - Make your draft selections.
        - Provide the commissioner complete information on any team
          members added after the draft.
        - Encourage participation.

Eligibility

Those eligible are:

1. Current faculty and staff members (active and retired) at Syracuse
University.

2. Any graduate student or non-university runner who participated in a
minimum of four timed runs on four different dates during our official timed
runs the previous running year.

3. Each captain may add to his/her roster, a maximum of four non-university
runners and four graduate students who do not meet the above specifications.

4. All runners must participate during four of our "official timed runs" on
four separate days before his/her times count for a team. Prior to the fourth
timed run, that person will be recorded as a reserve runner and will be
considered a "protected player" for his/her team.

5. In cases where a relay team is made up of some reserve runners and some
regular team members, the scores of the regular team members will count 
toward the team score.

6. Steve Nix and Dick Coleman are "honarary SU faculty members for life"
in this program.

7. Others are encouraged to participate; we will keep track of your
individual performances, but you will not be placed on one of the noon time
teams.

Procedures

1. Events of 3000 meters or shorter must be run on a track. When submitting
times for 5000 meters and over, indicate whether run on a track or a road.
If run on the road, it must be on a certified course or one whose distance
is deemed reasonably accurate by the commissioner. Times submitted in road
races ending in tengths will be rounded up to the next higher even second.

2. Relays may be run only on designated relay days and make-up days, and
during official track meets outside the Noon Time Runs. A team may run any
relay on relay days.

3. Results submitted should be recorded in actual races. A runner may submit
a maximum of two results from informal runs, provided another person did the
timing.

4. An individual may run the same event several times in one year. Only the
performance resulting in the most points for that event will count for 
participation and achievement points.

5. The competition runs from May 16 through May 15.

6. Captains may add names to their team roster until March 1.

7. Those attending the End-'O-Year banquet will pay for the dinner of the
person who had the highest rated single performance during the season,
provided the person completed runs on at least four official dates. A person
who has earned a free dinner will not be eligible for another free dinner
for five years. 

Point System

Participation Points: Every runner who participates in a race will receive
one participation point for his/her team regardless of the time. You may 
only score one participation point per event.

Achievement Points: Additional points may be earned in each event by equaling
or bettering the standard in the appropriate category found in the
scoring table.
